_Azure SQL is a collective term for a family of Microsoft SQL Server based database services in Azure._

Specific Azure SQL services include:

* **SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs) -** A virtual machine running in Azure with an installation of SQL Server. The use of a VM makes this option an infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) solution that virtualizes hardware infrastructure for compute, storage, and networking in Azure; making it a great option for "lift and shift" migration of existing on-premises SQL Server installations to the cloud.

* **Azure SQL Managed Instance -** A platform-as-a-service (PaaS) option that provides near-100% compatibility with on-premises SQL Server instances while abstracting the underlying hardware and operating system. The service includes automated software update management, backups, and other maintenance tasks, reducing the administrative burden of supporting a database server instance.

* **Azure SQL Database -** A fully managed, highly scalable PaaS database service that is designed for the cloud. This service includes the core database-level capabilities of on-premises SQL Server, and is a good option when you need to create a new application in the cloud.

* **Azure SQL Edge -** A SQL engine that is optimized for Internet-of-things (IoT) scenarios that need to work with streaming time-series data.

***Azure database services for open-source database systems***

* *_MySQL_* started life as a simple-to-use open-source database management system. It's the leading open source relational database for Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP (LAMP) stack apps. It's available in several editions; Community, Standard, and Enterprise. 

* *_MariaDB_* is a newer database management system, created by the original developers of MySQL. The database engine has since been rewritten and optimized to improve performance. One notable feature of MariaDB is its built-in support for temporal data. A table can hold several versions of data, enabling an application to query the data as it appeared at some point in the past.

* *_PostgreSQL_* is a hybrid relational-object database. You can store data in relational tables, but a PostgreSQL database also enables you to store custom data types, with their own non-relational properties. The database management system is extensible; you can add code modules to the database, which can be run by queries. Another key feature is the ability to store and manipulate geometric data, such as lines, circles, and polygons.
